# Sweetwater++
  
* **Overview**: An iteration on top of [üíß Sweetwater](./2.5-Sweetwater.md)
* **Result**: A little further along the Oregon Trail
* **Milestone board**: [üí¶ Sweetwater++](https://github.com/orgs/vegaprotocol/projects/93)
* **Target timings**: 4-6 weeks (early to mid November 2021)

## Key Requirements
| Priority | Feature | Because | Details | Owner </br>(Spec Lead) | Sub-Function |
|:---------:|---------|---------|:------:|:------:|:------:|
| **1** | üîë Master key / Hot key | We need a safety related feature specifically for validators</br>_(Needed for trading)_ | [Spec](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/blob/master/protocol/0063-validator-vega-master-keys.md) | @davidsiska-vega | Core |
| **2** | üîë HSM for ETH keys | Validators want to run a secure infrastructure</br>_(Needed for trading)_ | [Project](https://github.com/orgs/vegaprotocol/projects/91) / </br> Spec TBC | @core | Core |
| **3** | üé• Snapshotting | Limited Network Life is a stopgap - snapshots are a step towards validator set changes | [Project](https://github.com/orgs/vegaprotocol/projects/90) / </br> [Spec](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/blob/master/non-protocol-specs/0023-snapshots.md)  | @core | Core |
| **4** | ‚öñ Settlement at Expiry Tools | We need documentation, examples, end to end testing (and tooling if necessary) so we are ready to start Oregon Trail</br>_(Needed for trading)_ | [Project](https://github.com/orgs/vegaprotocol/projects/5) / </br> [Spec](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/product/blob/master/protocol/0002-settlement.md) | @davidsiska-vega | Core |
| **5** | üëÆ‚Äç‚ôÇÔ∏è Testnet Limits | We want to complete and improve the UX of this feature that makes sure the community are protected during the early stages of trading on mainnet</br>_(Needed for trading)_ | [Project](https://github.com/orgs/vegaprotocol/projects/44) / </br> [Spec](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/blob/master/non-protocol-specs/0003-limits-aka-training-wheels.md#sweetwater-1) | @barnabee | Smart Contracts</br>Devops</br>UI-Dev |
| **6** | üíº Downloadable Wallet| Make the UI experience of running a wallet nicer for users | [Project](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/desktop-wallet/projects/1) / </br> Spec TBC? | @barnabee | UI-Dev |
| **7** | üíº Web Wallet | We want to offer a wallet that can be used in a browser without downloading any software | [Project](https://github.com/orgs/vegaprotocol/projects/94) / </br>[WIP-Spec](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/pull/688)| @barnabee | Core</br>UI-Dev |
| **8** | API clean up for testnet | We need to make testnet work again and ultimately make feature development faster | [Project](https://github.com/orgs/vegaprotocol/projects/98) | @core | Devops</br>Core |
| **9** | Rewrite Dockerised Vega | Dockerised Vega is hard to maintain and is slowing us down | [Issue](https://github.com/orgs/vegaprotocol/projects/95#card-68976394) | @core | Devops</br>Core</br>Core-QA |
| **10** | Rewrite Documentation | Documentation on Fairground are inconsistent and in some cases is not relevant to mainnet. The new tool will address these issues and allow docs to be relevant to the respective networks | TBC | @core | Devops</br>UI-Dev |
| **11** | System-test backlog project | QA need to catch up with the system tests not covered - ordered set for this milestone - catching up will make feature development faster | [Project](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/system-tests/projects/1) | @core | Core-QA</br>Devops |
| **12** | ü§ë Incentivised data-node specification | Specify requirements for incentivising non validators to run data nodes | [Project](https://github.com/orgs/vegaprotocol/projects/92)/ </br>[WIP-Spec](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/pull/684) | @davidsiska-vega | Research |
| **13** | üó≥ Freeform governance proposals specification | Specify requirements to allow the community to also provide votes on proposals which don't change any of the behaviour of the currently running Vega blockchain | [Spec](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/blob/master/protocol/0028-governance.md#6-freeform-governance-proposal)| @davidsiska-vega | Research</br>Core</br>UI Dev | 
| **14** | Auto distribute newly associated tokens | We want to create a great UX around newly associated tokens | [Spec](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/blob/master/protocol/0059-simple-staking-and-delegating.md) | @davidsiska-vega | Core |
## Stretch Tasks
| Priority | Feature | Because | Details | Owner </br>(Spec Lead) | Sub-Function |
|:---------:|---------|---------|:------:|:------:|:------:|
| **15** | ü§ë Incentivised data-node implementation | Develop incentivised data node as per specification | [Project](https://github.com/orgs/vegaprotocol/projects/92)| @davidsiska-vega | Core |
| **16** | üó≥ Freeform governance proposals implementation | Allow the community to also provide votes on proposals which don't change any of the behaviour of the currently running Vega blockchain as per specification | [Spec](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/blob/master/protocol/0028-governance.md#6-freeform-governance-proposal) | @davidsiska-vega | Core</br>UI-Dev | 
| **17** | Null Blockchain specification | Specify requirements for null blockchain  | [Spec](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs-internal/pull/713) | - | Research |
| **18** | Data node v2 specification | Specify requirements for Data note v2 | - | - | Research</br>UI Dev</br>Engineering |
